--- Page 1 ---
2018  DSE Part B Q5 (Learning English through Debating)  
Q: You are representing your school at an inter -school debating competition. The 
motion is ‘The policy of reporting students ’ class position should be abolished ’. Write 
a debate speech arguing  for OR against the motion  
 
 
Lv5**  M1:21  M2:19   40/42 
  Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, today’s motion is the policy of reporting 
students’ class position should be abolished. Recently, this issue has aroused 
wide concern within various circles and prov oked a stir among the locals. The 
advocates put forward the idea that abolishing the policy of reporting 
students’ class position helps safeguard the mental health of the adolescents, 
while the skeptics insist that this policy serves as a vital role in mot ivating 
students to study. Divergent as the arguments are, it is my firm conviction 
that the policy of reporting students’ class position should certainly be 
abolished and today’s motion must stand.  
  There is no shortage of reasons for my stance. Among al l these, probably 
the first recurring to my mind is that abolishing the policy serves as an 
indispensable role in enhancing students’ mental health and their stress levels 
would be decimated significantly after the policy is abolished. Nowadays, it 
has become an omnipresent phenomenon that students suffer from 
exceedingly high workload pressure and expectations under the 

--- Page 2 ---
exam-oriented education system. It is also demoralizing to know that the 
suicide rate of adolescents in Hong Kong has been exponentially i ncreasing 
and more than 60% of the secondary school students are facing a myriad 
of mental health problems ranging from depression to autism according to 
the research conducted by the University of Hong Kong. In view of this 
deplorable trend, we should not  turn a blind eye to the thorny problem 
and abolishing the policy of reporting students’ class position can exactly 
eradicate the problem. After abolishing the policy, they will no longer suffer 
from tremendous pressure as their class positions are not ann ounced and 
they do not have to strive to pass their exams with flying colors in a bid 
to get recognition from their peers and teachers. Apart from that, what 
is also worthy of our attention is that abolishing the policy helps the 
adolescents attain a sense  of security, especially for the ones who are not 
academically inclined. All in all, abolishing the policy can effectively help the 
students keep their depression and other negative emotions, as well as 
suicide ideation at bay.  
  Alongside enhancing the me ntal health of the adolescents, under no 
circumstances should we overlook the fact that abolishing the policy can 
indisputably bolster students’ confidence, cultivate their self -worth and 

--- Page 3 ---
reinforce their self -esteem. Under the current education system, stu dents 
who are not exam -savvy and weak in memorizing facts may consider 
themselves as ‘losers’ when they perform poorly in their exams. It is an 
irrefutable fact that they have shattered confidence and low self -esteem. 
The presence of the policy of reportin g students’ class position further 
aggravates the problem as those who are not scholastically superior may face 
discrimination or stigmatization by their peers. In severe cases, after their 
peers acknowledging their class rankings, their peers may mock at them and 
think that they are ‘clumsy’, thus increasing their confusion, pressure and 
emotional stress drastically. Under this line of thinking, the existing policy 
of reporting students’ class positions not only puts their mental health in 
jeopardy, but al so deteriorates students’ self -esteem as they would suffer 
from poor social life and tremendous pressure under the policy. It is 
self-evident that the policy should be abolished in order to help the students 
acquire a sense of affiliation from healthy soci al life, as well as to boost their 
confidence and re -establish their self -esteem. 
  Last but not least, abolishing the policy of reporting students’ class 
position serves as a catalyst to accelerate the progress in cultivating more 
well-rounded individuals . Nowadays, it is a ubiquitous phenomenon that 

--- Page 4 ---
teachers, parents and teenagers attach inordinate importance to academic 
results, and students keep regurgitating facts and catering answers 
specifically to marking schemes in order to achieve outstanding resu lts. The 
rampant tutoring industry striving to let students be fully equipped with 
exam skills has further added fuel to the problem. In view of the alarming 
situation, it is essential for schools to abolish the policy of reporting 
students’ class position s as it can help change the perception that ‘academic 
performance is above everything’. Abolishing the policy indirectly shows that 
schools not only pose emphasis on academic results, but also value students’ 
personal development. It is also important for us to take a glance at the 
fact that abolishing the policy can instill correct concepts into students that 
being exam -savvy does not translate into functionality and academic results 
are not the sole criterion in determining whether the person is successfu l 
or not. It is also beyond dispute that schools can better unleash students’ 
potential in art or music after abolishing the policy and allow every student 
to experience success and flourish. Furthermore, abolishing the policy can 
help leverage the diversi ty of our workforce as students’ potentials can be 
unearthed when academic results are no longer the only focus.  
  Some critics may counter my stance, asserting that the policy of reporting 

--- Page 5 ---
students’ class position is crucial in motivating the students to study harder. 
This claim may seem reasonable on the surface, but upon closer examination, 
it does not make much sense. Undeniably, the policy can churn out more 
talents who are exam -savvy and push them to pay full attention to their 
academic results. Yet, does that mean the aggregate of those scholastically 
superior kids can result in a more dynamic economy, a creative population, 
a superior society? I am sure that the answer is certainly no. In contrast, 
abolishing the policy not only helps enhance the men tal health of the 
adolescents, but also diversifies the working population, which minimizes the 
likelihood of economic depression in Hong Kong.  
  Judging from the above well -documented analysis, it is my firm belief that 
the policy of reporting students’ p osition imposes far -reaching and negative 
impacts on both students and the community as a whole. With this in mind, 
it is patently obvious that the policy should be abolished as soon as possible, 
so that Hong Kong can thereby be widely recognized as an int ernational 
metropolis in return. Thank you.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 6 ---
Lv 5**       C:7  L:7  O:7  
2012 DSE Q9  
Q: Your school magazine is going to include a special feature on   
   mental health. Recently, one of your friends was suffering  
   from  depression. Write an ARTICLE for the school magazine  
   <1> about your friend ’s depression and <2> how he/she overcame it.  
<3> Give advice to others on how to help fight depression.  
 
3 THINGS TO INCLUDE IN YOUR ESSAY : 
<1>:   
-why did your friend suffer from depression?  
-what problems did your friend encounter?  
 
<2>: 
-seek help from the professionals  
-moderate exercise  
-join more extra -curricular activities  
 
<3>: (can actually overlap with  <2> ) 
-practice medication techniques (yoga, deep breathing, meditation)  
-eat a healthy diet  
-join a support group for depression  
 

--- Page 7 ---
Face it Bravely! ------  The Key to Fighting Depression  
  There is only one thing more staggering than Hong Kong ’s 
mind-blowing economic metamorphosis in the past few years, 
and it is  the still widespread ignorance about  the problem of 
depression. It is an omnipresent phenomenon that people in 
Hong Kong suffer from depression, not to mention that the 
number of people suffering from it has been exponentially 
increasing . Probably one of the contributory factors to this 
deplorable trend is the exorbitantly  fast pace of life of Hong 
Kong residents given that Hong Kong is an international 
metropolitan city. However, under no circumstances should we 
overlook the fact that  the relatively low aware ness about 
maintaining mental health among people further aggravates  the 
problem. After much deliberation in the long run, it is my firm 
conviction that comprehensive strategies should be put forward 
in order to tackle the thorny  problem as it will undenia bly bring 
a myriad of  far-reaching impacts to the community  ranging from  
residents having declining quality of life to enterprises 
suffering from shrinking workforce and diminishing productivity  

--- Page 8 ---
if we let the problem become a vicious circle  by looking on with 
folded arms. In this article, I will give three pieces of advice to 
all of you on how to fight depression  and share my friend ’s 
experience.  
  There are actually numerous solutions that can fight against 
depression. Among all these, the first recurring to my mind is to 
set achievable goals. When you are depressed, you may feel like 
you cannot accomplish anything. Setting daily achievable goals 
plays a vital role in re -establishing your self -esteem and 
boosting  your confidence. A flawless illustration of the 
viewpoint is that  my friend, Jane, was at first plagued by  the 
problem of depression and overcoming the problem was 
insurmountably difficult for her. Yet, after consulting a host of 
social workers and psychologists, she tried to set dai ly 
attainable and feasible goals like doing 30 to 60 minutes of 
aerobic exercise every day, engaging  in advanced studies and 
attending extra -curricular activities such as Dance Generation ’s 
Hip Hop course, Hong Kong ’s Triathlon Association ’s training 
course , to name but a few, in order to nurture her talents in 

--- Page 9 ---
various aspects. After several weeks, she has successfully 
developed a positive sense of self and reconstructed her 
self-assurance. With this in mind, setting goals and 
accomplishing them is irrefutably  a good way to alleviate  the 
problem of depression as it not only  enables you to have a higher 
sense of achievement and satisfaction, but also helps unleashing 
your potentials.  
  It is also beyond dispute that  having enough rest and doing 
moderate  exercise plays an indispensible  role in fighting 
depression. Nowadays, it is a ubiquitous phenomenon  that people 
attach inordinate importance to students ’ academic results. As 
a result, adolescents are often overburdened with exceedingly  
high expectations  and workload pressure. Students are so 
focused on acing their exams so as to gain recognition from 
their peers and teachers. They have hectic schedules with a 
vast number  of tutorial classes and they always burn the 
midnight oil. Hence, it is self -evident  that they lack time for 
relaxation and entertainment. From my point of view, having at 
least 60 minutes of rest every day is an effective solution  to 

--- Page 10 ---
mitigate  the problem of depression, and having not enough 
relaxation is tantamount to  undermining  students ’ physical and 
mental health. I am not justifying that  you should certainly not 
be snowed under with homework, tutorial classes, and strive to 
pass the public exam with flying colors, but giving zero 
entertainment and rest to yourself is equally d etrimental to 
your personal growth. Apart from having enough rest, doing 
moderate exercise  serves as a catalyst to accelerate the 
progress in overcoming depression. My friend, Jane, not only  
participated in yoga class and Hip Hop course , but also  insisted 
on doing HIIT workout every day at home . She claimed that 
exercise is a distraction for her that can get her away from the 
cycle of negative thoughts that feed anxiety and depression. In 
fact, exercising makes you feel happier and there are actually 
some m edical proofs. Regular exercise helps you ease 
depression in releasing feel -good brain chemicals like 
endorphins, and also in reducing immune system chemicals that 
can worsen depression.  The fact that regular exercise helps 
people maintain their physical h ealth is universally acknowledged, 

--- Page 11 ---
yet, we should not overlook the fact that it is also crucial  to 
keep people mentally healthy.  
  Last but not least, seek appropriate treatment and help from 
the professionals if you need! Depression can leave a person 
feeling lethargic , unmotivated, or hopeless. In severe cases, 
depression can lead to suicidal ideation. Unfortunately, stigma 
surrounding depression inhibits many people from seeking 
treatment as an individual with depression may be viewed as 
flawed or weak. Nonetheless, s eeking professional assistance 
and treatment can help you identify the source of depression 
and it is the only way that will successfully address your crux of 
problem . Jane had feelings of inadequacy and grief, but she had 
completely no idea what the under lying reasons that 
contributed to her depression were. After finding help from 
various professionals, she figured out that it was actually the 
tremendous pressure resulting from not being capable of 
achieving outstanding academic results that got her extre mely 
depressed.  
  All in all, it is of paramount importance  to maintain good 

--- Page 12 ---
mental health as you will not have a healthy body if you do not 
take good care of your mind. It is patently obvious that  it is 
worth giving the thumbs -up to the idea that we shou ld fight 
depression and other negative emotions bravely. It is earnestly 
hoped that  the government departments can make a concerted 
effort  to ignite the public awareness of keeping good mental 
health, instead of adopting a wait -and-see approach, as the 
problem of depression in society is so acute  that the 
government must take prompt action to eradicate  it. As an 
individual, we should value ourselves and make every endeavor  to 
keep ourselves healthy, both physically and mentally.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 13 ---
Lv 5**       C:7  L:7  O:7  
2016 DSE Q4  
Q: It has recently been reported that some parents in Asian countries are  
   installing  apps on their children ’s mob ile ph ones that monitor their  
   activities  to ensure that they use these devices responsibly. Write a  
   letter  to the Young Post stating whether you agree with these parents ’  
   actions or not. Justify your position with three reasons.  
 
BRAINSTORMING : 
AGREE:  
 
-help parents keep their  children away from the social media sites that are  
 exposed  to cyber bullying, sex and porn . 
 
-help limit the number of hours their children spend on their phones  
 ~>help them establish good study habits at home  
 
-track the child ’s location anytime ~> protect them from dangerous 
situations encountered outside home  
 
 
DISAGREE:  
 
-severely harm the child ’s privacy  
 
-children might feel that their parents don ’t trust them ~> pose risks to 
the relationship between parents and child  
 
-there are limitations for tracking and monitoring apps (not possible to 
protect children from all risks)  
 
 

--- Page 14 ---
Dear Editor,  
  Recently, the issue of whether parents should install apps on 
their children ’s mobile phones that monitor their activities to 
ensure that they use these devices responsibly  has aroused 
wide concern among various circles  and provoked a stir among 
the locals . The advocates put forward the idea that installing 
these apps is a sign of good parenting, while the skeptics 
including some psychologists and privacy experts insist that 
such acts can harm parent -child relationships.  Divergent as the 
arguments are, it is my firm belief that parents should not 
monitor what their children do online by installing apps.  
  There is no shortage of reasons for my stance. Among all 
these, the first recurring to my mind is that humans need 
privacy, even children. No one should feel that everything they 
are doing is being monitored, particularly when they haven ’t 
done anything wrong. It is understandable that some parents 
are worried about their kids doing bad things on the Internet, 
but it is a n undeniable fact that  parents stalking their kids by 
installing apps on their children’s mobile phones fails to address 

--- Page 15 ---
the fundamental problem  and it is certainly not an effective and 
long-term solution . According to the research conducted by the 
Univers ity of Hong Kong, children whose parents constantly 
stalk what they do, looking over their shoulder and reading 
every message and Google search, are the ones who have a 
higher tendency to rebel.  They will grow sick of having no 
privacy and overprotective p arents, and they will be much more 
likely to attempt bad things outside their parents ’ watch. In 
view of this, isn’t it preposterous for some advocates to uphold 
the claim that  it is necessary to install the apps in order to 
monitor and safeguard the kids given that they haven ’t done any 
inappropriate things? I am not justifying that  children should 
not be educated not to overuse their phones and be instilled 
correct concepts of  online safety, but spying on the kids using 
apps that severely harm the children ’s privacy is equally 
detrimental to their personal growth.  
  Alongside harming the kid ’s privacy, under no circumstances 
should we overlook the fact that  installing such apps on 
children ’s mobi le phones poses risks to the relationship between 

--- Page 16 ---
parent and child. If a parent does not tell the child they are 
being monitored, and the child finds out, this is likely to be 
experienced as a breach of trust. One of the widely recognized  
features of trust  is that it takes time to build, but can be easily 
broken and once broken can be extremely difficult to rebuild. 
After installing the apps, parents can spend hour upon hour 
examining photos on Instagram or Facebook of their children 
and checking every sing le messages of their children with their 
friends.  It is patently obvious  that the adolescents may suffer 
from depression or anxiety, not to mention they may also 
develop hatred towards their parents. For sure, there is no 
foolproof  way to prevent your chil dren from getting into trouble. 
In fact, it will probably happen no matter what you do. But 
respecting the children and giving them some degree of privacy 
will allow the parents to forge  a much stronger relationship with 
their children based on mutual trus t, instead of them seeing 
their moms and dads simply as evil dictators who they must work 
to avoid. It is beyond dispute that  mutual respect is a 
contributory factor to  the enhancement of cohesion among the 

--- Page 17 ---
family members. In light of this, it is self-evident that  parents 
should not monitor their kids by installing apps on their mobile 
phones.  
  Last but not least, it is of paramount importance  that we 
notice the fact that there are numerous limitations for tracking 
and monitoring apps. Companies t hat make the apps trade on an 
assumption that it is possible to protect children from all risks 
and that the way to do this is to watch every move so as to avert 
or intercept  potential harm. Yet, it goes against the growing 
body of evidence that shows that  children are losing the very 
skills they need to navigate the world and deal with the genuine 
risks they will encounter.  This is not to say that parents should 
blindly trust their children and neglect their responsibility to 
protect them from danger. On t he contrary, every child needs 
to be better educated and supported in working out how to 
safely negotiate their way around social media, online gaming, 
email and texting, which is, with no doubt, the most 
comprehensive and long -term solution to mitigate  the existing 
problem of online safety.  

--- Page 18 ---
  Judging from the above well -documented analysis , it is my 
firm conviction that parents should not install apps on their 
children ’s devices to monitor their activity, instead, we should 
give the thumbs -up to the idea t hat parents should foster more 
in-depth communication  with their children and infuse correct 
concepts of  using the mobile devices appropriately into them. It 
is earnestly hoped that  parents will not install apps that monitor 
their children anymore as it not only  infringes on their beloved 
children ’s privacy, but also  damages the parent -child 
relationships.  
Yours faithfully,  
Chris Wong  
Chris Wong  
 
 