--- Page 1 ---
 
 
SAMPLE 
ESSAYS (1)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 2 ---
Lv 5**       C:7  L:7  O:7  
2012 DSE Q9  
Q: Your school magazine is going to include a special feature on   
   mental health. Recently, one of your friends was suffering  
   from depression. Write an ARTICLE for the school magazine  
   <1> about your friend ’s depression and <2> how he/she overcame it.  
<3> Give advice to others on how to help fight depression.  
 
3 THINGS TO INCLUDE IN YOUR ESSAY : 
<1>:   
-why did your friend suffer from depression?  
-what problems did your friend encounter?  
 
<2>: 
-seek help from the professionals  
-moderate exercise  
-join more extra -curricular activities  
 
<3>: (can actually overlap with <2> ) 
-practice medication techniques (yoga, deep breathing, meditation)  
-eat a healthy diet  
-join a support group for depression  
 

--- Page 3 ---
Face it Bravely! ------  The Key to Fighting Depression  
  There is only one thing more staggering than Hong Kong ’s 
mind-blowing economic metamorphosis in the past few years, 
and it is  the still widespread ignorance about  the problem of 
depression. It is an omnipresent phenomenon that people in 
Hong Kong suffer from depression, not to mention that the 
number of people s uffering from it has been exponentially 
increasing . Probably one of the contributory factors to this 
deplorable trend is the exorbitantly  fast pace of life of Hong 
Kong residents given that Hong Kong is an international 
metropolitan city. However, under no  circumstances should we 
overlook the fact that  the relatively low awareness about 
maintaining mental health among people further aggravates  the 
problem. After much deliberation in the long run, it is my firm 
conviction that comprehensive strategies should  be put forward 
in order to tackle the thorny  problem as it will undeniably bring 
a myriad of  far-reaching impacts to the community  ranging from  
residents having declining quality of life to enterprises 
suffering from shrinking workforce and diminishing productivity  

--- Page 4 ---
if we let the problem become a vicious circle  by looking on with 
folded arms. In this article, I will give three pieces of advice to 
all of you on how to fight depression  and share my friend ’s 
experience.  
  There are actually numerous solutions that can fight against 
depression. Among all these, the first recurring to my mind is to 
set achievable goals. When you are depressed, you may feel like 
you cannot accomplish anything. Setting daily achievable goals 
plays a vital role in re -establishing your self -esteem and 
boosting  your confidence. A flawless illustration of the 
viewpoint is that  my friend, Jane, was at first plagued by  the 
problem of depression and overcoming the problem was 
insurmountably difficult  for her. Yet, after consulting a host of 
social workers and psychologists, she tried to set daily 
attainable and feasible goals like doing 30 to 60 minutes of 
aerobic exercise every day, engaging  in advanced studies and 
attending extra -curricular activiti es such as Dance Generation ’s 
Hip Hop course, Hong Kong ’s Triathlon Association ’s training 
course , to name but a few, in order to nurture her talents in 

--- Page 5 ---
various aspects. After several weeks, she has successfully 
developed a positive sense of self and reconstructed her 
self-assurance. With this in mind, setting goals and 
accomplishing them is irrefutably  a good way to alleviate  the 
problem of depression as it not only  enables you to have a higher 
sense of achievement and satisfaction, but also helps unleashing 
your potentials.  
  It is also beyond dispute that  having enough rest and doing 
moderate exercise plays an indispensible  role in fighting 
depression. Nowadays, it is a ubiquitous phenomenon  that people 
attach inordinate importance to students ’ academic results. As 
a result, adolescents are often overburdened with exceedingly  
high expectations and workload pressure. Students are so 
focused on acing their  exams so as to gain recognition from 
their peers and teachers. They have hectic schedules with a 
vast number  of tutorial classes and they always burn the 
midnight oil. Hence, it is self -evident that  they lack time for 
relaxation and entertainment. From my  point of view, having at 
least 60 minutes of rest every day is an effective solution  to 

--- Page 6 ---
mitigate  the problem of depression, and having not enough 
relaxation is tantamount to  undermining  students ’ physical and 
mental health. I am not justifying that  you should certainly not 
be snowed under with homework, tutorial classes, and strive to 
pass the public exam with flying colors, but giving zero 
entertainment and rest to yourself is equally detrimental to 
your personal growth. Apart from having enough re st, doing 
moderate exercise  serves as a catalyst to accelerate the 
progress in overcoming depression. My friend, Jane, not only  
participated in yoga class and Hip Hop course , but also  insisted 
on doing HIIT workout every day at home . She claimed that 
exerc ise is a distraction for her that can get her away from the 
cycle of negative thoughts that feed anxiety and depression. In 
fact, exercising makes you feel happier and there are actually 
some medical proofs. Regular exercise helps you ease 
depression in re leasing feel -good brain chemicals like 
endorphins, and also in reducing immune system chemicals that 
can worsen depression.  The fact that regular exercise helps 
people maintain their physical health is universally acknowledged, 

--- Page 7 ---
yet, we should not overlook the fact that  it is also crucial  to 
keep people mentally healthy.  
  Last but not least, seek appropriate treatment and help from 
the professionals if you need! Depression can leave a person 
feeling lethargic , unmotivated, or hopeless. In severe cases, 
depression can lead to suicidal ideation. Unfortunately, stigma 
surrounding depression inhibits many people from seeking 
treatment as an individual with depression may be viewed as 
flawed or weak. Nonetheless, s eeking professional assistance 
and treatment can help you identify the source of depression 
and it is the only way that will successfully address your crux of 
problem . Jane had feelings of inadequacy and grief, but she had 
completely no idea what the under lying reasons that 
contributed to her depression were. After finding help from 
various professionals, she figured out that it was actually the 
tremendous pressure resulting from not being capable of 
achieving outstanding academic results that got her extre mely 
depressed.  
  All in all, it is of paramount importance  to maintain good 

--- Page 8 ---
mental health as you will not have a healthy body if you do not 
take good care of your mind. It is patently obvious that  it is 
worth giving the thumbs -up to the idea that we shou ld fight 
depression and other negative emotions bravely. It is earnestly 
hoped that  the government departments can make a concerted 
effort  to ignite the public awareness of keeping good mental 
health, instead of adopting a wait -and-see approach, as the 
problem of depression in society is so acute  that the 
government must take prompt action to eradicate  it. As an 
individual, we should value o urselves and make every endeavor  to 
keep ourselves healthy, both physically and mentally.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 9 ---
Useful vocabs & sentence patterns:  
1. There is only one thing more staggering than Hong Kong ’s 
mind-blowing economic metamorphosis in the past few years, 
and it is the still widespread ignorance about the problem of 
depression/animal abuse/compensated dating … (introduction 
to the issue)   
2. Omnipresent phenomenon ( 常見現象 ) 
ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Ubiquitous phenomenon  
(2) All-present phenomenon  
(3) Universal phenomenon  
 
3. Exponentially increasing (rapidly increasing)  
ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Explosively increasing  
(2) Skyrocketing  
(3) Escalating  
 
4. Exorbitantly=Extremely  
 
5. Under no circumstances should we overlook the fact that … 
(可用此句引出下個 argument)   
 


--- Page 10 ---
6. Aggravate( 惡化) 
ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Exacerbate  
(2) Compound/Complicate  
(3) Inflame  
 
7. Thorny (=serious)  
ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Acute  
(2) Insurmountable  
(3) Severe  
 
8. A myriad of …(一定要跟 countable nouns!!!!!!)  
ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) A host of  
(2) A multitude of  
(3) A vast number of  
 
9. Ranging from AAA to BBB (and CCC)  
e.g. Nowadays, children are not capable of dealing with daily situations, 
ranging from washing clothes to cooking food by themselves.  
 
10. Let the problem become a vicious circle ( 令問題變成一個惡性
循環) 
11.  Vital 
ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Indispensable  
(2) Essential  
(3) Crucial  
 

--- Page 11 ---
12.  Boosting  
ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Bolstering  
(2) Uplifting  
(3) Enhancing  
 
13. A flawless illustration of the viewpoint is that … (引出例子 ) 
 
14. (be) plagued by=affected by  
e.g. Hong Kong is now at a tight corner plagued by crucial competitors  
    from nearby countries.  
 
15.  Irrefutably ( 無可否認地 ) 
  ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Indisputably  
(2) Undoubtedly/Unquestionably  
(3) Evidently  
 
16.  Alleviate (mitigate)= 減輕 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
17.  AAA not only… .., but also ………. 
 Extra: 停止問題再發生  
(1) Stamp out  
(2) Eradicate          + problem  
(3) Grapple with  
 

--- Page 12 ---
18.  It is beyond dispute that …. 
 ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) It is an irrefutable/indisputable /undeniable  fact that… 
(2) It is patently obvious that … 
(3) It is self -evident that … 
 
19.  Exceedingly/Extremely/Significantly /Tremendously  
20.  Tantamount to=Equivalent to  
  e.g. To leave a dog home alone is tantamount to cruelty.  
 
21.  Undermine  
  ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Impede 
(2) Threaten  
(3) Impair 
 
22.  I am not justifying that …., but ……… (useful in argumentative                
  essays to make your viewpoints more convincing)   
e.g. I am not justifying that we should spend a long period of time  
       watching TV and be addicted to it, but not giving any 
entertainment time for yourself is equally detrimental to your 
personal growth.  
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 13 ---
23.   AAA serves as a catalyst to accelerate the progress in              
   (….ing)  
   e.g. Watching TV for 30 to 40 minutes every day serves as a  
        catalyst to accelerate the progress in stimulating our  
        creativity.  
 
24.   Lethargic (having no energy to do anything, similar to    
   unmotivated ) 
25.   The crux of the problem/The heart of the problem/The  
   core of the problem  
 
26.   (be) of paramount importance =very important  
   ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Vitally important  
(2) Of substantial/enormous importance  
 
27.   It is earnestly hoped that ……(useful in endings esp for    
   Letter to the editor/argumentative essays)   
 
28.   A and B should make a concerted effort to …(共同努力 ) 
   ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Make unremitting effort s 
(2) Make sustained endeavor s 


--- Page 14 ---
Lv 5**       C:7  L:7  O:7  
2016 DSE Q4  
Q: It has recently been reported that some parents in Asian countries are  
   installing  apps on their children ’s mob ile ph ones that monitor their  
   activities  to ensure that they use these devices responsibly. Write a  
   letter  to the Young Post stating whether you agree with these parents ’  
   actions or not. Justify your position with three reasons.  
 
BRAINSTORMING : 
AGREE:  
 
-help parents keep their  children away from the social media sites that are  
 exposed  to cyber bullying, sex and porn . 
 
-help limit the number of hours their children spend on their phones  
 ~>help them establish good study habits at home  
 
-track the child ’s location anytime ~> protect them from dangerous 
situations encountered outside home  
 
 
DISAGREE:  
 
-severely harm the child ’s privacy  
 
-children might feel that their parents don ’t trust them ~> pose risks to 
the relationship between parents and child  
 
-there are limitations for tracking and monitoring apps (not possible to 
protect children from all risks)  
 
 

--- Page 15 ---
Dear Editor,  
  Recently, the issue of whether parents should install apps on 
their children ’s mobile phones that monitor their activities to 
ensure that they use these dev ices responsibly  has aroused 
wide concern among various circles  and provoked a stir among 
the locals . The advocates put forward the idea that installing 
these apps is a sign of good parenting, while the skeptics 
including some psychologists and privacy experts insist that 
such acts can harm parent -child relationships. Divergent as the 
arguments are, it is my firm belief that parents should not 
monitor what their children do online by installing apps.  
  There is no shortage of reasons for my stance. Among  all 
these, the first recurring to my mind is that humans need 
privacy, even children. No one should feel that everything they 
are doing is being monitored, particularly when they haven ’t 
done anything wrong. It is understandable that some parents 
are worr ied about their kids doing bad things on the Internet, 
but it is an undeniable fact that  parents stalking their kids by 
installing apps on their children’s mobile phones fails to address 

--- Page 16 ---
the fundamental problem  and it is certainly not an effective and 
long-term solution . According to the research conducted by the 
University of Hong Kong, children whose parents constantly 
stalk what they do, looking over their shoulder and reading 
every message and Google search, are the ones who have a 
higher tendency to re bel. They will grow sick of having no 
privacy and overprotective parents, and they will be much more 
likely to attempt bad things outside their parents ’ watch. In 
view of this, isn’t it preposterous for some advocates to uphold 
the claim that  it is necessa ry to install the apps in order to 
monitor and safeguard the kids given that they haven ’t done any 
inappropriate things? I am not justifying that  children should 
not be educated not to overuse their phones and be instilled 
correct concepts of  online safety, but spying on the kids using 
apps that severely harm the children ’s privacy is equally 
detrimental to their personal growth.  
  Alongside harming the kid ’s privacy, under no circumstances 
should we overlook the fact that  installing such apps  on 
children ’s mobile phones poses risks to the relationship between 

--- Page 17 ---
parent and child. If a parent does not tell the child they are 
being monitored, and the child finds out, this is likely to be 
experienced as a breach of trust. One of the widely recognize d 
features of trust is that it takes time to build, but can be easily 
broken and once broken can be extremely difficult to rebuild. 
After installing the apps, parents can spend hour upon hour 
examining photos on Instagram or Facebook of their children 
and checking every single messages of their children with their 
friends.  It is patently obvious  that the adolescents may suffer 
from depression or anxiety, not to mention they may also 
develop hatred towards their parents. For sure, there is no 
foolproof  way t o prevent your children from getting into trouble. 
In fact, it will probably happen no matter what you do. But 
respecting the children and giving them some degree of privacy 
will allow the parents to forge  a much stronger relationship with 
their children based on mutual trust, instead of them seeing 
their moms and dads simply as evil dictators who they must work 
to avoid. It is beyond dispute that  mutual respect is a 
contributory factor to  the enhancement o f cohesion among the 

--- Page 18 ---
family members. In light of this, it is self -evident that  parents 
should not monitor their kids by installing apps on their mobile 
phones.  
  Last but not least, it is of paramount importance  that we 
notice the fact that there are numer ous limitations for tracking 
and monitoring apps. Companies that make the apps trade on an 
assumption that it is possible to protect children from all risks 
and that the way to do this is to watch every move so as to avert 
or intercept  potential harm. Yet,  it goes against the growing 
body of evidence that shows that  children are losing the very 
skills they need to navigate the world and deal with the genuine 
risks they will encounter.  This is not to say that parents should 
blindly trust their children and n eglect their responsibility to 
protect them from danger. On the contrary, every child needs 
to be better educated and supported in working out how to 
safely negotiate their way around social media, online gaming, 
email and texting, which is, with no doubt,  the most 
comprehensive and long -term solution to mitigate  the existing 
problem of online safety.  

--- Page 19 ---
  Judging from the above well -documented analysis , it is my 
firm conviction that parents should not install apps on their 
children ’s devices to monitor their activity, instead, we should 
give the thumbs -up to the idea that parents should foster more 
in-depth communication  with their children and infuse correct 
concepts of  using the mobile devices appropriately into them. It 
is earnestly hoped that  parents will not install apps that monitor 
their children anymore as it not only  infringes on their beloved 
children ’s privacy, but also  damages the parent -child 
relationships.  
Yours faithfully,  
Chris Wong  
Chris Wong  
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 20 ---
Useful vocabs & sentence pattern s: 
1.  …has aroused wide concern among various circles  
ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Has sparked heated discussion  
(2) Has hit the headlines  
(3) Has been in the limelight  
 
2.  …has provoked a stir among the locals  
ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Has engendered/triggered a stir among the locals  
(2) Has stirred up much controversy  
 
3.  Fundamental problem  
ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Underlying problem  
(2) Intrinsic problem  
(3) Root problem  
 
4.  Isn’t it preposterous for s.b.(the critics/advocates) to  
uphold the claim that …. (useful in making your viewpoints  
more convincing)   
 
Alternative approach  ~write a CA!~   
Some critics may counter my stance, asserting that ……(their argument). This argument is  
reasonable  on the surface, but upon closer examination, it does not make much sense.  
 
 
 


--- Page 21 ---
5.  Instill /infuse  correct concepts of (sth) into (sb)  
 e.g. It is hoped that schools can add moral education lessons into the  
     school curriculum, which can instill correct concepts of sex into  
     students ’ minds.  
6.  Foolproof (involving no risk/harm)  
 ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Infallible  
(2) Unfailing  
(3) Unerring  
 
7.  Forge/Frame/Shape a strong relationship  
8.  A contributory factor to … 
 e.g. Allowing filming in the city centre serves as a contributory factor  
     to the local economy in terms of visitors.  
 
9.  Avert (=avoid)  
 ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Intercept  
(2) Obviate 
(3) Ward off 
 
10. It goes against the growing body of evidence that shows  
   that… (useful to make your viewpoints more convincing)   
   Mention the argument from the opposite side -> (Rebuttal)  
   Yet, it goes against the growing body of evidence that show s 
that… 


--- Page 22 ---
11.  Foster/stimulate/promote more in -depth communication  
 
12.  Judging from the above well -documented analysis, …(useful  
    in endings)  
 ANY ALTERNATIVES?? :o  
(1) Taking all aspects into account,… 
(2) All in all/To sum up, … 
(3) Taking all perspectives into consideration, … 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 23 ---
Lv 5**       C:7  L:7  O:7  
Q: The English Debate Team is going to join a debate competition  
   organized  by Sing Tao Daily. The motion is “Computer Programming  
   should  be made a compulsory subject in secondary schools in Hong  
   Kong. ” Write a letter to the editor regarding the issue.  
 
Dear Editor,  
  Recently, the issue of whether computer programming should  
be made a compulsory subject in secondary schools in  Hong Kong 
has aroused wide concern among various circles and provoked a 
stir among the locals. The advocates put forward the idea that 
making computer programming a compulsory subject can help 
the adolescents to be innovative, while the skeptics insist th at 
the skills learnt in the lessons are completely useless for the 
young people in the future. Divergent as the arguments are, it is 
my firm conviction that the benefits of computer programming 
lessons far outweigh the drawbacks, and I am prone to support 
the idea that computer programming should be made a 
compulsory subject in secondary schools in Hong Kong.  
  There is no sh ortage of reasons for my stance. Among all 
these, probably the first recurring to my mind is that making 
computer programming a compul sory lesson plays a vital role in 

--- Page 24 ---
cultivating the students into well -rounded individuals. It is 
unanimously agreed that computer programming lessons enhance 
student s’ computational thinking, which  is the ability to 
communicate their thoughts in a structure d and logical way. This 
type of thought process is like the step by step instructions 
that are coded into a computer. It is also the process of 
thinking up and then solving problems in a methodical way. 
Considering that it has already become a ubiquitous p henomenon 
that the adolescents lack a myriad of life skills and the ability 
to solve problems independently with the prevalence of 
over-protective parents, we must not turn a blind eye to the 
problem and it is beyond dispute that we should take full 
advant age of the computer programming subject, which  serves 
as an indispensable role in strengthening the problem -solving 
skills of students. To put it simply, computer programming 
lessons help develop students ’ computational thinking and equip 
themselves with a  wide range of life skills, which  in turn allowing 
them to tackle problems encountered in diverse daily life 
situations in a stepwise manner and in a rational way. Yet, these 

--- Page 25 ---
are only slight reasons for my stance.  
  Apart from the aforementioned benefits, it is irrefutable 
that making computer programming a compulsory subject in 
secondary school curriculum is advantageous to the students ’ 
personal growth in long term. Given that technology advances in 
a significantly rapid rate, the current generation of ch ildren will 
need to be literate in technology in order to grab the limelight 
in such a competitive job market. After several years, not 
knowing how to code will be comparable to not knowing how to 
read. Most jobs require the knowledge of basic IT skills, w hile 
even retail and fast food jobs require the use of technology and 
computers. Under this line of thinking, it is patently obvious 
that computer programming should be made compulsory so as to 
allow students to have better job prospects in the future. 
Furthermore, what is also worthy of our attention is that 
computer programming lessons help unearth students ’ potentials, 
which is conducive to students ’ personal development. Under the 
exam -oriented education system, it is an omnipresent 
phenomenon that stud ents suffer from exceedingly high 

--- Page 26 ---
workload pressure, and those who are not academically inclined 
may consider themselves as ‘losers ’. They lose their confidence 
and self -esteem gradually, which is undeniably detrimental to 
their personal growth. Making com puter programming a 
compulsory subject can exactly eradicate the existing thorny 
problem, as it provides an alternative pathway for students to 
experience success and helps churn out more IT talents. In 
other words, it is effective in bolstering student s’ confidence, 
reinforcing their self -esteem and cultivating their self -worth 
when they find their potentials in the ICT aspect.  
  Alongside facilitating the personal growth of adolescents, 
under no circumstances should we overlook the fact that making 
comput er programming a compulsory subject can help leverage 
the diversity of our future workforce, which helps boost the 
local economy. According to the research conducted by the 
Hong Kong Government, over 50% of our working population is 
serving in the financia l, investment and insurance sector, and 
over 30% of the population is serving in the retail and service 
industry, while only 2% of the workforce is working in the 

--- Page 27 ---
computer industry. In view of this deplorable trend, it is 
self-evident that the government s hould make sustained 
endeavors to diversify the workforce population in order to 
minimize the likelihood of economic depression and to balance 
the current working population. Making computer lessons 
compulsory serves as a catalyst to accelerate the progres s in 
sharpening Hong Kong ’s competitive edge as more IT talents can 
be cultivated and more people will apply for jobs like coding 
specialists, which are highly sought -after and in huge demand in 
the current job market.   
  Judging from the above well -documented analysis, making 
computer programming a compulsory subject imposes 
far-reaching impacts on both students and society. It is 
earnestly hoped that schools will introduce computer 
programming lessons into the school cu rriculum. It is also hoped 
that the local government can make unremitting efforts to help 
develop the ICT industry in a multi -pronged approach, so that 
Hong Kong can thereby be widely recognized  as an international 
metropolis in return.  

--- Page 28 ---
Lv 5**       C:7  L:7  O:7  
PP Q6 
Q: There is talk of certain schools removing PE lessons from the  
   curriculum  so students can concentrate more on academic  
   subjects . Write a letter to the Secretary of Education  
   expressing  your views on the proposal.  
   
Dear Sir/Madam,  
  Recently, the issue of whether schools should remove PE 
lessons from the curriculum so students can concentrate more 
on academic subjects has aroused wide concern among various 
circles and has provoked a stir among the locals. The advocates 
put forward the idea that removing PE lessons can effectively 
churn out more talents while the skeptics insist that PE lessons 
should not be removed in order to cultivate more well -rounded 
individuals. Divergent as the arguments are, it is my firm 
convicti on that PE lessons should not be removed.  
  There is no shortage of reasons for my stance. Among all 
these, the first recurring to my mind is that exercising during 
PE lessons is a natural way to let students loosen up and let go of 
stress. Under the exam -oriented education system, students 
and teachers attach inordinate importance to academic results. 

--- Page 29 ---
In a bid to gain recognition from peers and teachers, students 
are so focused on acing their exams and it is an irrefutable fact 
that they are overburdened w ith significantly high expectations 
and workload pressure. Parents ’ relentless insistence on 
straight A ’s and daily hours of music mandatory practice 
further aggravates the problem and it undeniably makes the 
children suffer from tremendous  pressure. I am not justifying 
that students should not strive to pass their exams with flying 
colors, but not providing moderate exercise in PE lessons to 
students is equally detrimental to their personal growth. 
Considering the fact that the suicide rate in Hong Kong is  
exponentially increasing, it is of paramount importance that 
they should be given the opportunity to relieve their stress and 
relax in order to stop this deplorable trend. According to the 
research conducted by the University of Hong Kong, exercise 
reduce s the levels of stress hormones by 20% in your body. At 
the same time, it stimulates production of endorphins, and it is 
unanimously agreed that endorphins are natural mood lifters 
that can keep stress and depression at bay. Under this line of 

--- Page 30 ---
thinking, is n’t preposterous for some advocates to uphold the 
claim that it is necessary to remove PE lessons from the school 
curriculum in order to let them focus on their academic 
subjects given that doing sports plays a vital role in maintain ing 
student s’ mental he alth and cardiovascular fitness?  
  Alongside facilitating the physical and mental health of the 
adolescents, under no circumstances should we overlook the 
fact that keeping PE lessons plays an indispensable role in 
cultivating more  well-rounded individual s. It is patently obvious 
that it has become a ubiquitous phenomenon that local students 
keep regurgitating facts and catering answers specifically to 
marking schemes, and the presence of exceedingly rampant 
tutoring industries with star tutors striving to let students be 
fully equipped with exam skills further adds fuel to the problem. 
With the prevalence of over -protective parents, it is apparent 
that students nowadays  lack a myriad of essential  life skills like 
resilience, ability to cope with adversity, leadership skills and 
cooperation skills. Yet, team sports like dodge ball , football, 
volleyball in PE lessons teach students teamwork and 

--- Page 31 ---
problem -solving skills. Students can fight for a common goal 
with a group of players and coaches may also teach them how to 
build teamwork and effectively communicate to solve problems 
when playing team sports. In addition, the regular exercise that 
comes with playing sports can boost students ’ confidence, 
establish their self -esteem and reinforce their self -assurance. 
As students ’ strength, skills and stamina increase through 
playing sports, their self -image will improve as well. With the 
renewed vigor and energy that comes from physical activity, 
students may be more likely to succeed in tasks off the playing 
field as w ell as on it. All in all, doing sports in PE lessons is 
definitely beneficial to students ’ personal development.  
  Last but not least, the presence of PE lessons in school 
curriculum can help nurture sports talents. Schools can raise 
their competitiveness as they can take full advantage of their 
students ’ skills in playing ballgames or track and field events to 
achieve awards and to polish their reputation. With the 
one-shot examination system in Hong Kong, many students are 
arguably exam -savvy. Yet, does t hat mean that the aggregate of 

--- Page 32 ---
those scholastically superior kids is a more dynamic economy, a 
more creative population, a superior society? The presence of 
PE lessons serves as a catalyst to accelerate the progress in 
unearthing students ’ potential in pla ying various kinds of sports, 
thus bolstering their confidence and cultivating their 
self-worth. It is beyond dispute that keeping PE lessons in the 
school curriculum helps leverage the diversity of our future 
workforce as students’  potential and talents i n sports can be 
discovered and unearthed.  
  Judging from the above well -documented analysis, keeping PE 
lessons in the school curriculum imposes far -reaching and 
positive impacts on both schools and children. It is earnestly 
hoped that PE lessons will not be removed from the school 
curriculum and the government will make unremitting endeavors 
to ignite the public awareness of the importance of doing sports, 
so that Hong Kong can thereby be widely recognized  as an 
international metropolis in return.  
Yours fa ithfully,  
Chris Wong.  

--- Page 33 ---
Chris Wong  